on all the administrators at whatever level, I'm not going to ask the negative, to which ones would you express the greatest appreciation for their support for the program?
Well, certainly in the, I mean, I had a great admiration for Jack Williams, although I don't think he was directly involved in the day-to-day activities.
I was very impressed with my 30 minutes with him when I initially came down to interview.
Perhaps it was because I was fairly young and impressionable at that time, but nevertheless, I really felt that if he was running the place, it was a safe place to come.
And I figured I was taking quite a gamble because it was the Department of Sociology and Anthropology and might not ever be anything else.
I also liked Dave Maxwell because I found him to be not only an able administrator, but somebody who was very trustworthy.
In other words, what he said, he did what he said.
If he didn't like something, he'd tell you.
But if he told you something, you can count on it and you can take it to the bank, so to speak.
Certainly Chuck McCandless and Danny Parker, who worked in the college, were very helpful in the early days.
In fact, in the early days it was a lot of fun working with Danny because back in those days you did things over the telephone.
And you'd call up Danny and say, Danny, I need this.
And Danny would say, let's go get it, you know.
You didn't have to go through all the paperwork and all this other stuff.
Those were the main people.
Keith Bryan and I really didn't get along too well for a couple of reasons.
I don't know whether this is really important or not,
The only time I ever decided that I wanted to be a dean was after Maxwell left.
And Randy Kirkpatrick and Keith Bryant and I were the three finalists for the position of dean after Maxwell left.
And of the three, they selected Keith Bryant.
Randy Kirkpatrick left and went down to San Antonio where he became president of San Antonio.
Sam Kirkpatrick.
I'm sorry, what?
You said Randy Sam.
Sam Kirkpatrick.
Oh, Sam Kirkpatrick.
You're right.
It was Sam Kirkpatrick.
I got it wrong.
You're right.
Sam Kirkpatrick.
Went down to San Antonio where he eventually became president.
Anyway, Keith Bryant became the next dean.
About the same time I was gaining quite a bit of fame from being on the Today Show.
And to tell the truth were two TV programs I was on where I was talking about my research into kissing.
And of course I was also doing all of this stuff that was reaching the news about the caveman diet and so forth.
Keith Bryant didn't think that this was really exemplatory of faculty members.
Sensationalism is what he called it.
In fact, he one time wrote me a letter in which he basically said, quit doing it.
The other thing that I thought was interesting was, and probably what really endeared me forever with Keith Bryant, was there was a meeting of the Board of Regents in which some of the department heads were invited to, just a small number.
There were two or three from liberal arts.
I happened to be one of them.
I remember I was talking to one of the department heads, I was talking to one of the Board of Regents, and this was right after Keith Bryant had just been appointed dean, so we were
talking and he was asking me what I was doing and I was telling him about my kissing research and he'd heard about it and it was real interesting and Keith was standing very close by and he said well he said I don't know where the dean is but he said I'm sure glad I got to meet the important Dr. Bryant at Texas A&M University and I saw Keith give me a bad look and then the other thing which was really kind of embarrassing was my wife was talking to some of the other women who were the wives of other deans
And they mistakenly took her for Keith's wife and said, oh, well, you have to come over to dinner at our house.
I have to come over here.
And then later, they had to come back and eat crow and say, oh, we're very sorry.
We got the wrong Mrs. Bryant.
Anyway, but Keith, I don't really think
And the other thing was, occasionally he'd get phone calls from the press who would call up.
They'd look in the directory, they'd see a Bryant, and they'd call this guy, and they'd ask him about kissing, and he just got infuriated.
And there were a few other administrators, although I never forget Tom Cherry.
He always thought it was funny.
Tom Cherry was briefly president for a while.
Wasn't he?
No, you're talking about Bob or Tom?
Tom was the business officer and Bob was the secretary to the board.
Who was the president temporarily?
I thought it was Tom.
I remember it was the interim president.
Yeah.
Between, before, before.
Who died not long ago.
Yeah.
Nah.
Anyway, okay, anyway, but it was that cherry, and I remember talking to him one time while he was president.
Well, that would be Bob Cherry.
Bob Cherry, okay, yeah, and he thought it was real funny.
He liked it, you know, he thought.
Now, there was another thing, too, and that is that Mac Prescott, although I always liked... Prescott, go ahead.
Boy, that sounds terrible.
I hope the secretary didn't...
Mac Prescott.
Yes.
I said, although I always liked Mac Prescott, I'll never forget there was one thing that you enjoyed the story.
When I was in biology for 15 years, it was on the dedication, this is when he was dean of science, it was on the dedication of the new biology lecture room, the first really big room on campus that would hold more than 200 students.
This was back in the early 80s somewhere.
Or late 70s.
Probably late 70s.
Anyway, this was a reception that was being held in the room where this new lecture hall was being dedicated.
And he gave this little talk and everything.
Well, anyway...
I was then talking to Eleanor Cox, who was also a graduate of the Department of Botany at the University of Texas at Austin, and the two of us were sitting there talking.
And in that particular classroom, they have white boards instead of black boards, and you write on them with a black felt tip.
And so I was just making a joke, and I said to Eleanor, I said, well, isn't it just like a bunch of Aggies?
I said, everybody else in the world has black boards and use white chalk, and the Aggies have a white board and use black chalk.
And Prescott was standing right next to him, and I didn't know it.
He was right behind me.
He turned around, and he said, in a very stern voice, he said, we don't need comments like that from T-Sips.
And I felt like saying, oh boy, have I cooked my goose now.
Anyway, he never let me live it down.
He continued to remind you?
Yes, continued to remind me throughout my career that I, but, you know, he's a really nice guy and I have nothing against him, but I mean, I just, he bleeds maroon for sure.
Which faculty, for the quality of the current program today, other than you, which faculty deserve most credit for building
the reputation of the department.
Wow, that's a, you know, that's a hard... I'm not going to ask the negative, just which... No, I know, I know.
That's a hard question because Harry Schaefer, who was the first archaeologist we hired, has certainly done a lot at the local level and within the state of Texas to expound on our archaeological proudness.
He's worked with amateurs as well as professionals throughout the state and certainly excavated a lot of sites and so forth.
Probably, well, not counting the nautical people, Mike Waters, who is a geoarchaeologist, is one of the top people in the field of geoarchaeology.
I worry every day that somebody's going to get him away from us because he is not only an excellent researcher and good teacher,
but is a real good asset to our program and really pioneered and has also been the sort of cornerstone of our geoarchaeology program.
He's the one also who excavated and is reporting and writing a book on the prisoner war camp up at Compton, you know.
Anyway, so those two people really, I think more than anything else in our department have really helped their reputation.
Of course, in nautical archaeology, you'd have to point to George Bass, worldwide reputation there.
And I'd say those are the three really key people.
It's not that other people haven't contributed, but.
If the department had the funding for another position today in a new field, and you were the sole authority on selecting that, what other field would you add a person to?
Oh, man, that's a good question.
There's so many different areas that you could go into.
I really think this new technology, the conservation thing, I really think that in the years to come, that's going to really take off.
It's not that I don't, there's nobody else doing it.
I mean, we've already got people in there.
I guess it would have to be, I don't know, I'm really still a marvel at all of the new technology and telecommunications and all of this kind of stuff.
And I know there are anthropologists that are dealing in this kind of stuff.
There are two areas that are really sort of on the forefront.
One is the use of GIS in terms of using GIS in archaeology for determining not only sites but terrain, contours, topography, all this kind of stuff.
That's an area that I think could be exploited.
The other one is in imaging.
We have the technology, it's available, but nobody's really captured it yet.
I foresee someday where you could get on the web and you could go to Texas A&M University and you could punch a button on Musterian Middle Paleolithic lithics, okay?
and then you could see like a hologram, a three-dimensional picture of all of the artifacts that were collected.
So that you could measure them, you could actually do a detailed study of the flaking technology and so forth.
That would not only be true for lithics, but you could do it for pottery, you could do it for buttons, you could do it for coins, you could do it for any kind of artifact whatsoever.
So that someday in the future, a person sitting at his PC, at his desk, would not necessarily have to get up and go to a library and look it up in a book or would have to go get it through interlibrary loan or in some cases would have to go to a museum in England or France to look at the original material because they would have this all available visually.
The technology is there, we just haven't really done it yet.
And of course it would be a tremendous expense and everything, but I know of some anthropologists that are working on the cutting edge of this new technology and trying to develop it for anthropological means.
So either one of those two areas I think would be something.
I'm a great believer in teaching and I mean I've always placed a great emphasis in teaching and I've always tried to hire faculty who were not only good researchers but also were good teachers.
But unfortunately I just don't think that institutions in general and even Texas A&M
pays enough attention to good teaching.
I really don't.
I'm with you.
And, I mean, I hate to say it, but I've seen some excellent teachers sort of fall by the wayside, and I've seen some excellent researchers who were poor teachers and who could care less get all kinds of merit raises and all kinds of kudos.
So, anyway.
All right.
That leads me to almost the next to the last question.
If you had the capability, let's say somebody walks up to you and gives you a million dollar check, there's one requirement, you must pass it on to Texas A&M, but you can decide what use would be made of that money.
What would you... You mean in any area whatsoever?
Anywhere on the... anywhere, anything.
Well, there's so many different places one could put it.
I mean, humanitarianly, you know, you could say, well, you could set up a cancer institute to try to find a cure for cancer or a cure for some fatal disease, or you could put it in the library.
I'd say put it in the library and put it in history.
But what would, do you have any idea what the reason I'm doing?
In other words, what would be your pet desire?
Well, I mean,
My pet, I mean, you have to ask them two different ways.
One is where is the most practical place to put it and where is, you know, the most, well.
But now you're, under this question, you're the emperor and you can decide where it would go and what it would be used for.
Well, if I'm not considering anybody else.
Well, I really,
One of the things that, a million dollars, that's a lot of money.
I don't know if I'd need a whole million dollars, but of course I'm very, and I work with pollen.
We have one of the best collections in the world.
We are on the edge of being able to do what I just described with a pollen collection.
I am in the process of writing an NSF grant to see if I can convince NSF to give us money to do that so that we can put our entire collection in a web type of environment so that people all over the world could benefit from this collection, because most people do not have access to these kinds of facilities.
What kind of money would that cost?
Well, it wouldn't cost a million dollars.
No.
But what are you going to ask for?
A couple hundred thousand or something.
Is it possible that you could do for a half million?
No, you couldn't do all pollen everywhere?
There are...
at least a half a million plants, all of which produce different pollen types.
So it could keep us busy forever.
I mean, you could never get it all.
But the other thing is, and as I said, it's very self-serving, but I would love to see A&M sort of be the focus for the study of pollen of all kinds of things, malicious pollenology, animal pollenology,
Archaeological palynology, geologic palynology, the whole thing.
And it would kind of fit with a school with an agricultural plant.
Sure.
I mean, and geology, too.
I mean, it would have a lot of advantages.
There is no place, there is no university anywhere that has been able or willing to put the resources into building something like that.
one place where it can all be done.
There are some places in Europe and France.
France has put a tremendous amount of money into it.
There are some places that are almost like that in France.
Is there another anthropology program in the United States that is just a little ahead of us in its rate of progress that we could say, here's a school that went from nothing to something that we might use as our model?
I really can't think of another school that has gone from nothing to where we are as fast as we have.
There were so many different factors that all played into our hands at the same time.
I arrived at Texas A&M when there were 13,500 students.
While anthropology was growing, A&M was growing by leaps and bounds.
there were millions of dollars poured into A&M's growth, and some of that was available for anthropology.
If we would have tried to establish this program in a university that was pretty static, we never could have done what we did.
Or if we had tried to do it at A&M before 1960.
Or even now.
Yeah, or even now.
We couldn't do it, you know.
So I don't know of another program anywhere that sort of rose from the ashes so fast.
And Calgary, many years ago, back in the late 60s, the University of Calgary was the first North American university to have a separate Department of Archaeology.
They have a Department of Anthropology and a Department of Archaeology.
And that grew very rapidly over the course of about five to ten years.
But that's a very narrow program and it doesn't have nearly the size of the scope that we have.
As far as another university that's just a little ahead of us,
There are a lot of them that are a little ahead of us, but all of them have been in business for a lot longer than we have.
There are a few that started up more or less when we did, but they're not nearly as far along as we are.
I mean, you know, most of them are still at the BA level.
They don't even have graduate programs.
So, you know, as I said, we came along at the right time, at the right place, with the right kind of circumstances, and also with the right administration.
One of the assets I found at A&M was you can get things done.
I remember from Washington State University and also the University of Texas that administrative hassles were a lot worse than they were at Texas A&M.
So, I mean, we were able to get things done pretty efficiently.
Alright, last question then.
What feelings do you have in your heart about Texas A&M?
Well, you know, my wife and I were discussing that the other day.
She said, well, why don't you retire and let's just go somewhere?
And I said, go where?
I said, why would I want to go anywhere?
I said, we have a beautiful new house that we built.
Our grandchildren live in Houston and in Bryan.
Where is it that you want to go?
I mean, why leave this nice environment and go to Florida or go to California or go to Colorado?
I mean, all of those places have some good aspects, but they also have drawbacks.
And I think I finally convinced her that we will probably spend most of the rest of our days here, you know.
Of course, when I first came over here, I was singing the song of Dumb Aggies, you know, as being a t-sip myself.
And I still don't, I mean, if you walk into my office, you will see a picture of the tower.
It was given to me as a gift on my 50th birthday, and I have it.
So I still respect the University of Texas.
I still enjoy going back over there.
I've been on dissertation committees.
I've been on four dissertation committees at the University of Texas, and I still consider that home when I go over there.
But nevertheless, I was offered a job there once while I was at A&M, and I turned it down, and I would not go back to Austin.
I would not go back there now to work.
I wouldn't want to live in Austin anymore.
Austin is not the same city that it used to be.
A&M has been very good to me and I have absolutely no reason to leave.
So as far as I'm concerned, I will stay here until I retire and then become an emeritus professor and probably do like you do and continue to come up to my office as long as I'm able.
We'll continue to see A&M grow.
My wife graduated from A&M, my daughter graduated from A&M, so we've started a matrilineal line from A&M.
My sons went off to other universities, but anyway.
Let's quit there.